README.md, before:

# Cambio

Cambio is a simple shared animation component for React.

Cambio simplifies shared animations in React by removing the complexity that many developers face when setting up these interactions.
By eliminating boilerplate code, it streamlines both implementation and maintenance workflows.

Built on [Base UI's](https://base-ui.com/) accessible primitives and [Motion's](https://motion.dev/) powerful animation library,
Cambio ensures your animations are both performant and inclusive by default.

# Installation

```bash
pnpm add cambio
```

# Setup

Cambio leverages Base UI's Dialog component to render popups outside of the main DOM hierarchy.
To make portalled components always appear on top of the entire page, add the following style to your application layout root.

```tsx
// layout.tsx
<body>
  <div className="root">
    {children}
  </div>
</body>

// styles.css
.root {
  isolation: isolate;
}
```

For more information, see the [Base UI Documentation](https://base-ui.com/react/overview/quick-start#set-up-portals).

# Usage

It can be used anywhere in your application as follows.

```tsx lineNumbers
"use client";

import { Cambio } from "cambio";

export default function Lightbox() {
  return (
    <Cambio.Root>
      <Cambio.Trigger>{/* Your Content */}</Cambio.Trigger>
      <Cambio.Portal>
        <Cambio.Backdrop />
        <Cambio.Popup>{/* Your Content*/}</Cambio.Popup>
      </Cambio.Portal>
    </Cambio.Root>
  );
}
```

For complete code examples, refer to the [examples directory](https://github.com/raphaelsalaja/cambio/tree/main/website/components/examples).

# Motion

Cambio leverages the power of [Motion](https://motion.dev/) to provide a seamless animation experience.
For example you can easily add your own transitions by passing a `transition` prop to any of the components.
This saves having to create a `<motion.div/>` for each component.

```tsx
<Cambio.Popup transition={{ type: "spring", bounce: 0.2, duration: 0.4 }} />
```

# Presets

Cambio includes built-in motion presets that provide consistent animation experiences across your application. You can configure the motion preset at the root level:

# Snappy

Fast ease-out animations (~240ms) for quick, responsive interactions.

```tsx
<Cambio.Root motion="snappy" />
```

# Smooth

Default ease-in-out animations (~240ms) for balanced motion.

```tsx
<Cambio.Root motion="smooth" />
```

# Bouncy

Spring animations with overshoot for playful, organic movement.

```tsx
<Cambio.Root motion="bouncy" />
```

# Dismissability

Cambio also supports dismissible popups, allowing users to easily close the popup by dragging on the popup. This prop is completely optional, so if you don't need this behavior, you can simply omit it.

```tsx
<Cambio.Popup dismissable>{/* Your Content */}</Cambio.Popup>
```

# Accessibility & Reduced Motion

Cambio respects user accessibility preferences, specifically the `prefers-reduced-motion` media query. By default, Cambio automatically detects and respects this system preference to provide a more accessible experience for users who prefer reduced motion.

```tsx
<Cambio.Root reduceMotion={true} />
```

# What Sets Cambio Apart

Cambio offers a unique combination of simplicity, accessibility, and powerful animation capabilities that sets it apart from other libraries.

Other libraries cater mainly towards image/video zooming. Cambio is not limited to do this. It's powered by [Motion](https://motion.dev/) and [Base UI](https://base-ui.com/) which provides a more comprehensive solution for building shared animations in React applications.

This means you can create expanded states, draggable elements, and interactions that feel natural, all while maintaining accessibility for every user.

What you can create with it, is limited only by your imagination.

# Support

For any issues or feature requests, please open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/raphaelsalaja/cambio).

You can also reach out to me on [Twitter](https://x.com/raphaelsalaja).

Commit message:

feat(motion): enhance motion handling with custom config support

README.md, after:

# Cambio

Cambio is a simple shared animation component for React.

Cambio simplifies shared animations in React by removing the complexity that many developers face when setting up these interactions.
By eliminating boilerplate code, it streamlines both implementation and maintenance workflows.

Built on [Base UI's](https://base-ui.com/) accessible primitives and [Motion's](https://motion.dev/) powerful animation library,
Cambio ensures your animations are both performant and inclusive by default.

# Installation

```bash
pnpm add cambio
```

# Setup

Cambio leverages Base UI's Dialog component to render popups outside of the main DOM hierarchy.
To make portalled components always appear on top of the entire page, add the following style to your application layout root.

```tsx
// layout.tsx
<body>
  <div className="root">
    {children}
  </div>
</body>

// styles.css
.root {
  isolation: isolate;
}
```

For more information, see the [Base UI Documentation](https://base-ui.com/react/overview/quick-start#set-up-portals).

# Usage

It can be used anywhere in your application as follows.

```tsx lineNumbers
"use client";

import { Cambio } from "cambio";

export default function Lightbox() {
  return (
    <Cambio.Root>
      <Cambio.Trigger>{/* Your Content */}</Cambio.Trigger>
      <Cambio.Portal>
        <Cambio.Backdrop />
        <Cambio.Popup>{/* Your Content*/}</Cambio.Popup>
      </Cambio.Portal>
    </Cambio.Root>
  );
}
```

For complete code examples, refer to the [examples directory](https://github.com/raphaelsalaja/cambio/tree/main/website/components/examples).

# Motion

Cambio leverages the power of [Motion](https://motion.dev/) to provide a seamless animation experience.
For example you can easily add your own transitions by passing a `transition` prop to any of the components.
This saves having to create a `<motion.div/>` for each component.

```tsx
<Cambio.Popup transition={{ type: "spring", bounce: 0.2, duration: 0.4 }} />
```

# Presets

Cambio includes built-in motion presets that provide consistent animation experiences across your application. You can configure the motion preset at the root level:

# Snappy

Fast ease-out animations (~240ms) for quick, responsive interactions.

```tsx
<Cambio.Root motion="snappy" />
```

# Smooth

Default ease-in-out animations (~240ms) for balanced motion.

```tsx
<Cambio.Root motion="smooth" />
```

# Bouncy

Spring animations with overshoot for playful, organic movement.

```tsx
<Cambio.Root motion="bouncy" />
```

# Dismissability

Cambio also supports dismissible popups, allowing users to easily close the popup by dragging on the popup. This prop is completely optional, so if you don't need this behavior, you can simply omit it.

```tsx
<Cambio.Popup dismissable />
```

The drag resistance will also respect the current motion preset. This can also be configured at the root level.

# Accessibility & Reduced Motion

Cambio respects user accessibility preferences, specifically the `prefers-reduced-motion` media query. By default, Cambio automatically detects and respects this system preference to provide a more accessible experience for users who prefer reduced motion.

```tsx
<Cambio.Root reduceMotion={true} />
```

# What Sets Cambio Apart

Cambio offers a unique combination of simplicity, accessibility, and powerful animation capabilities that sets it apart from other libraries.

Other libraries cater mainly towards image/video zooming. Cambio is not limited to do this. It's powered by [Motion](https://motion.dev/) and [Base UI](https://base-ui.com/) which provides a more comprehensive solution for building shared animations in React applications.

This means you can create expanded states, draggable elements, and interactions that feel natural, all while maintaining accessibility for every user.

What you can create with it, is limited only by your imagination.

# Support

For any issues or feature requests, please open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/raphaelsalaja/cambio).

You can also reach out to me on [Twitter](https://x.com/raphaelsalaja).
